The Yakima River's waters are constantly changing. Time and space can accumulate these changes, affecting habitat integrity and drinking water quality. We study the river's ability to assimilate organic matter from land and organize all the data into data packages (i.e., connected datasets). Our data packages include sediment respiration rates, types of organic matter, and other geochemical data. In addition to samples taken from 47 sites in streams and rivers in Washington, USA., we provide data from temperature, dissolved oxygen, conductance, and other sensors. These ancillary data help link sediment respiration rates to different types of metabolic rates in the river.


What flows in the waters of the Yakima River is in constant change. These changes have effects on habitat integrity, drinking water quality, and can also accumulate in time and space. At PNNL, we study changes river's ability to  assimilate organic matter coming from land, among other things. We organize all the data collected in data packages (i.e. connected datasets) including data about sediment respiration rates, organic matter characterization, and other geo-chemical data. We collected these data from 47 sites in streams and rivers throughout the Yakima River basin in Washington, USA. Besides our samples collected from the river, we also provide data packages from different sensors used during our field campaings, including, temperature, dissolved oxygen, conductance, and more. These ancillary data can be used to link sediment respiration rates to other types of metabolic rates in the river.


This dataset supports a broader study examining the drivers of spatial variability in sediment respiration rates in the Yakima River watershed.  The dataset provides geochemistry and organic matter characterization data generated from samples collected at 47 sites in streams and rivers throughout the Yakima River basin in Washington, USA. Related sensor data will be published separately and can be used to link sediment respiration rates to biogeochemical processing rates.